say two people are walking down the
street and they bump into each other
they'll just shake it off and walk on
sometimes that happens with molecules
too they just bounce off each other and
that's that
but what if two people were to bump into
each other and during that collision one
person's arm got severed and reattached
to the other person's face now that
sounds really weird but it's similar to
one of the many ways that molecules can
react with each other two molecules can
join and become one one can split apart
and become two molecules can switch
parts all these changes are chemical
reactions and we can see them happening
around us for example when fireworks
explode or iron rusts or milk goes bad
or people are born grow old die and then
decompose but chemical reactions don't
just happen
willy-nilly everything has to be right
first the molecules have to hit each
other in the right orientation and
second they have to hit each other hard
enough in other words with enough energy
now you're probably thinking that a
reaction just happens in one direction
and that's it sometimes that's true for
example things can't unburn or
unexploded and reverse there's no reason
that our face arm guy can't bump into
armless girl reattaching that arm back
to its original socket now let's zoom
out a bit now let's say that you've got
a thousand people on the street and all
of them start with their limbs normally
attached at the beginning every
collision is a chance for person a to
transfer an arm to person B's face and
so at the beginning more and more people
end up with arms attached to their faces
or arms missing but as the number of
people with arm faces and missing arms
grows collisions between those people
become more likely and when they bump
into each other guess what normal
appendage people are reproduced now the
number of limb transfers per second for
we'll start high and then fall and the
number of limb transfers per second
backward will start at zero and then
rise eventually they'll meet they'll be
the same and when that happens the
number of people in each state stops
changing even though people are still
bumping into each other in exchanging
limbs now how many people do you think
there are in each state half and half
right no well maybe it depends it could
be 50 50 but it could be 60 40 or 15 85
or anything we chemists have to get our
little gloved hands dirty well it
brittle labs have not really dirty to
figure out what the actual distribution
of molecules is even though each of
these limb transfers is a pretty
dramatic event for the people involved
if we zoom out we see population numbers
that don't change
we call this nirvana equilibrium and it
doesn't just happen with chemical
reactions things like gene pools and
highway traffic show the same pattern it
looks pretty still from 30,000 feet but
there is lots of crazy stuff happening
on the ground you just need to zoom in
to see it
Oh